
# Password Manager

Welcome to my Password Manager project! This is a simple yet powerful password management tool designed to help users securely store and manage their passwords.

## Features

-   **Secure Storage**: Safely store passwords and sensitive information using strong encryption techniques.
-   **User-friendly Interface**: Intuitive and easy-to-use interface for managing passwords and accounts.
-   **Password Generator**: Create strong and unique passwords with the built-in password generator.
-   **Authentication**: Enhance security with support for authentication methods like TOTP.


# Getting Started

## Terminal Usage

To use the Password Manager from the terminal, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repository.git
    ```
    Or you can also  download the zip file under the **<> Code** button on the repository and extract the file on your device

2. Navigate to the project directory:

    ```bash
    cd your-repository
    ```

3. Install the required dependencies using pip:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4. Run the password manager:

    ```bash
    python App.py
    ```
	
## Creating Executable with auto-py-to-exe

If you prefer to create an executable file using `auto-py-to-exe`, follow these steps:

1. . Clone the repository to your local machine:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repository.git
    ```
	  Or you can also  download the zip file under the **<> Code** button on the repository and extract the file on your device

2. Open a command terminal and navigate to the project directory:

    ```bash
    cd Password_Manager
    ```

3. Install the required dependencies using pip:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

5. Launch `auto-py-to-exe`:

    ```bash
    auto-py-to-exe
    ```
    Or in case you get an error message try using the following command:
     ```bash
    python -m auto_py_to_exe
    ```
    You will then be able to see a graphical user interface.

6. Follow the prompts in the graphical user interface to configure your executable. 

- Make sure to click on "**Select Script**" and navigate to the `App.py` file in your project directory. This is the entry point for your password manager application.

-   Under "**Additional Files**," make sure to click on the "**Add Folder**" and include the packages `Scripts` and `Secrets`.

-   Optionally, you can configure the "**Icon**". There is a .ico file in the repository which was created for it in the folder `Images` . If no icon is specified, the executable will be saved with the default python executable file icon.
  
-   Optionally, you can configure the "**Output Directory**" to specify where the generated executable file will be saved. If no output directory is specified, the executable will be saved in the default location.
    
-   Once you've configured the settings to your preference, click on "Convert .py to .exe" to generate the executable file.

-  Click on "Convert .py to .exe" to generate the executable file.

-  Once the conversion is complete, you'll find the executable file in the specified output directory.

-  Under the new output directory make sure to move the two **sv_ttk** folders under the `Images` folder inside the `_internal` order which was created with the executable.


## How to Use the Password Manager

### Step 1: Sign In

1.  Download and install an authenticator app such as Google Authenticator on your smartphone.
2.  Open the password manager application.
3.  Click on the "Sign In" button.
4.  Follow the on-screen instructions to enter your desired username and generate a QR code for authentication.
5. Open the authenticator app on your smartphone and scan the QR code displayed on the screen.
5.  Once the QR code is scanned, the authenticator app will generate a unique token then click on the "Done" button.

### Step 2: Log In

1.  Open the password manager application.
2.  Click on the "Log In" button.
3.  Enter your username.
6.  Enter the token generated by the authenticator app into the password manager application.
7.  Click on the "Log in" button to log in.

### Step 3: Access Passwords

1.  Upon successful authentication, you will be logged into the password manager dashboard.
2.  From the dashboard, you can view, add, modify, or remove passwords as needed.
3.  To add a new password, click on the "Add Password" button and fill in the required information.
4.  To modify  existing entry , select the ID from the list and fill in the required information.

5.  Generate Password
- To generate a new password, click on the "Generate Password" button.
- Enter the desired length of the password in the provided entry field.
- Optionally, check the following checkboxes to include:
    -   Uppercase letters
    -   Digits (numbers)
    -   Special characters
- Click on the "Generate" button to create a new password. The password will be stored on the .
#### Additional Options
1.  **Language Selection**: Use the language select box to switch between different language options.
2.  **View Mode**: Use the view mode select box to switch between different display modes.

### Step 4: Log Out

1.  To log out of the password manager application, simply click on the "X" button. This will log you off, close the Dashboard and send you back to the first window.


## License

This project is licensed under the [GNU General Public License v3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html) - see the LICENSE file for details.
